# SWDV691-Francis-User-Interface

P2P Rentals is a web application that allows users to rent out items that they do not use frequently to other customers on the platform. Users can post items of their choosing on the platform including pictures of the item, a description of the item and the available rental periods for the item. A customer browsing on the platform can then look at various items and rent it out if they choose. In order to rent the item out, a customer will have the option to pay with credit card through PayPal in the app or they can choose to pay in cash when meeting up for the exchange. After an item has been rented out, the contact information of the renter and the customer will be available to one another. The renter will then be responsible for contacting the customer and ensuring the transaction takes place correctly. Once the customer is in possession of the item, the app will display how many days/hours are left in the rental period. The app will also provide reminders periodically reminding the customer as to when the rental is due. 
The problem that P2P Rentals is looking to solve is giving consumers the opportunity to be more sustainable and frugal by renting out items that they don’t commonly use instead of buying them outright. An example would be an air mattress that is used when extra guests come over to your house. The mattress might only be needed for 3-4 days a year and the rest of the year it would just be sitting around collecting dust. Using P2P Rentals, the owner of the mattress can rent it out for the remaining 361 days of the year, theoretically, giving the mattress 91x utilization. Assuming 91x utilization, this means that 91 less air mattresses would need to be purchased that year, and this is just with one air mattress being rented out. If there are many hundreds of air mattresses being rented out, it would lead to tens of thousands of less air mattresses needed. This would mean less air mattresses need to be produced overall and the ones out there already can be utilized at a much higher rate than before. This leads to more sustainability and efficient use of goods and materials. 
The user personas that would derive value from the web application would pretty much be any consumer looking to rent goods that they don’t use frequently instead of buying them. An example would be a family that camps occasionally. Maybe they live in a colder climate region where camping can only happen in the summer. In this case, they can come on P2P Rentals and search for the appropriate camping equipment and rent it out for the duration of their camping trip. The value and benefits derived from solving this problem can be immense. Since it’s a web application, a lot of cost would need to be spent upfront to design the website and setup the backend infrastructure needed to support the application. However, once the site is setup the ongoing operating costs would scale elastically with the traffic on the site. Ideally, this application should be setup using a cloud service on the backend, but for the sake of simplicity for the project, a local database would be used. Once the site is up and running, users can start posting items that they wish to rent out. The customers can then come and browse the items on the site and look at the pictures and details of the items. Once they find an item that they’re satisfied with, they can rent it out on the application. The customer would interact with the application to initially search for the item that they’re interested in renting out. They can view pictures of the item and a detailed description. If they’re interested in renting the customer can push the rent button on the application which would work them through the rental workflow. They can choose to pay through the app via PayPal or pay in person with cash. The renter would interact with the application to manage their item postings including pictures and descriptions. They can also specify the duration of the rentals as well as the costs. Once the item has been exchanged between the renter and the customer, the customer will be able to view the remaining days/hours left on the rental. The renter could also view the same information and track to see whether a rental is received late or not. Once the rental period is up, the customer would be able to return the item back to the renter and the final receipt and record would be recorded in the application.  


This project specifically consists of the User Interface components of the P2P Rentals application. So far this consists of the basic wireframes, but soon it will include the HTML and JavaScript files used for the application.

It includes the .bmpr Balsamiq wireframes file as well as a PDF export of the wireframes
